MD5 (Message Digest, defined by RFC 1321) - was designed by Ron Rivest in 1992 and is a widely used cryptographic hash function with a 128-bit hash value. MD5 hashes are NOT considered cryptographically secure. In 2011, the IETF published RFC 6151, "Updated Security Considerations for the MD5 Message-Digest and the HMAC-MD5 Algorithms," which mentioned a number of attacks against MD5 hashes, including the hash collision.
SHA-1 (Secure Hash Algorithm 1, defined by RFC 3174) - was invented by United States National Security Agency in 1995. When data is fed to SHA-1 Hashing Algorithm, SHA-1 takes an input and produces a 160-bit hash value string as a 40 digit hexadecimal number. NIST deprecated the use of SHA-1 in 2011 and banned its use for digital signatures at the end of 2013 based on it being susceptible to brute-force attacks. Instead, NIST recommends migrating from SHA-1 to stronger hash algorithms in the SHA-2 and SHA-3 families.
The SHA-2 (Secure Hash Algorithm 2) - SHA-2 Hashing Algorithm was designed by The National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) and the National Security Agency (NSA) in 2001 to replace SHA-1. SHA-2 has many variants, and arguably the most common is SHA-256. The SHA-256 algorithm returns a hash value of 256-bits as a 64 digit hexadecimal number.

PS C:\Users\THM\Downloads> Get-FileHash .\OpenVPN_2.5.1_I601_amd64.msi -Algorithm MD5
Algorithm Hash                             Path                                                 
_________ ____                             ____                                                 
MD5       D1A008E3A606F24590A02B853E955CF7 C:\Users\THM\Downloads\OpenVPN_2.5.1_I601_amd64.msi


File Hash (After Modification)

PS C:\Users\THM\Downloads> echo "AppendTheHash" >> .\OpenVPN_2.5.1_I601_amd64.msi
PS C:\Users\THM\Downloads> Get-FileHash .\OpenVPN_2.5.1_I601_amd64.msi -Algorithm MD5
Algorithm Hash                             Path                                                 
_________ ____                             ____                                                 
MD5       9D52B46F5DE41B73418F8E0DACEC5E9F C:\Users\THM\Downloads\OpenVPN_2.5.1_I601_amd64.msi

Sales_Receipt 5606.xls

IP Address
You may have learned the importance of an IP Address from the "What is Networking?" Room. 
An IP address is used to identify any device connected to a network. These devices range from desktops, to servers and even CCTV cameras! We rely on IP addresses to send and receive the information over the network. But we are not going to get into the structure and functionality of the IP address. As a part of the Pyramid of Pain, we’ll evaluate how IP addresses are used as an indicator.
From a defense standpoint, knowledge of the IP addresses an adversary uses can be valuable. A common defense tactic is to block, drop, or deny inbound requests from IP addresses on your parameter or external firewall. This tactic is often not bulletproof as it’s trivial for an experienced adversary to recover simply by using a new public IP address.
One of the ways an adversary can make it challenging to successfully carry out IP blocking is by using Fast Flux.
According to Akamai, Fast Flux is a DNS technique used by botnets to hide phishing, web proxying, malware delivery, and malware communication activities behind compromised hosts acting as proxies.
The purpose of using the Fast Flux network is to make the communication between malware and its command and control server (C&C) challenging to be discovered by security professionals.
Read the following report to answer this question. What is the first IP address the malicious process (PID 1632) attempts to communicate with? 
(50.87.136.52)
Read the following report to answer this question. What is the first domain name the malicious process ((PID 1632) attempts to communicate with?
(craftingalegacy.com)

Domain Names
Domain Names can be thought as simply mapping an IP address to a string of text. A domain name can contain domain and a top-level domain (evilcorp.com) or a sub-domain folowed by a domain and top-level (tryhackme.evilcorp.com). But we will not go into the details of how the Somain Name System (DNS) works.
Domain names can be a little more of a pain for the attacker to change as they would most likely need to purchase the domain, register it and modify DNS recordes.Unofrtunately for defendes, many DNS provides have loose standards and provide APIs ot make it even easier for the attacker to change the domain.
This is one of the examples of a Punycode attack used by the attackers to redirect users to a malicious domain that seems legitimate at first glance.

What is Punycode? As per Wandera, "Punycode is a way of converting words that cannot be written in ASCII, into a Unicode ASCII encoding."
What you saw in the URL above is adıdas.de which has the Punycode of http://xn--addas-o4a.de/
Internet Explorer, Google Chrome, Microsoft Edge, and Apple Safari are now pretty good at translating the obfuscated characters into the full Punycode domain name.
Attackers usually hide the malicious domains under URL shorteners. A URL Shortener is a tool that creates a short and unique URL that will redirect to the specific website specified during the initial step of setting up the URL Shortener link. The attackers normally use the following URL-shortening services to generate malicious links: 

bit.ly
goo.gl
ow.ly
s.id
smarturl.it
tiny.pl
tinyurl.com
x.co
You can see the actual website the shortened link is redirecting you to by appending "+" to it (see the examples below). Type the shortened URL in the address bar of the web browser and add the above characters to see the redirect URL. 
HTTP Requests:
This tab shows the recorded HTTP requests since the detonation of the sample. This can be useful to see what resources are being retrieved from a webserver, such as a dropper or a callback.

Connections:
This tab shows any communications made since the detonation of the sample. This can be useful to see if a process communicates with another host. For example, this could be C2 traffic, uploading/downloading files over FTP, etc.

DNS Requests:
This tab shows the DNS requests made since the detonation of the sample. Malware often makes DNS requests to check for internet connectivity (I.e. if It can't reach the internet/call home, then it's probably being sandboxed or is useless). 
Go to this report on app.any.run and provide the first suspicious domain request you are seeing, you will be using this report to answer the remaining questions of this task.
craftingalegacy.com
What term refers to an address used to access websites?
Domain Name
What type of attack uses Unicode characters in the domain name to imitate the a known domain?
Punycode attack
Provide the redirected website for the shortened URL using a preview: https://tinyurl.com/bw7t8p4u
https://tryhackme.com/

Host Artifacts (Annoying)
A process named regidle.exe makes a POST request to an IP address based in the United States (US) on port 8080. What is the IP address?
96.126.101.6
The actor drops a malicious executable (EXE). What is the name of this executable?
G_jugk.exe
Look at this report by Virustotal. How many vendors determine this host to be malicious?
9

Network Artifacts (Annoying)
A network artifact can be a user-agent string, C2 information, or URI patterns followed by the HTTP POST requests.An attacker might use a User-Agent string that hasn’t been observed in your environment before or seems out of the ordinary. The User-Agent is defined by RFC2616 as the request-header field that contains the information about the user agent originating the request.
Network artifacts can be detected in Wireshark PCAPs (file that contains the packet data of a network) by using a network protocol analyzer such as TShark or exploring IDS (Intrusion Detection System) logging from a source such as Snort.
Let's use TShark to filter out the User-Agent strings by using the following command: tshark --Y http.request -T fields -e http.host -e http.user_agent -r analysis_file.pcap 
If you can detect the custom User-Agent strings that the attacker is using, you might be able to block them, creating more obstacles and making their attempt to compromise the network more annoying.

What browser uses the User-Agent string shown in the screenshot above?
Internet Explorer

How many POST request ar ein the screenshot from the pcap file?
6

Attackers would use the utilities to create malicious macro documents (maldocs) for spearphishing attempts, a backdoor that can be used to establish C2 (Command and Control Infrastructure), any custom .EXE, and .DLL files, payloads, or password crackers.
Antivirus signatures, detection rules, and YARA rules can be great weapons for you to use against attackers at this stage.
MalwareBazaar and Malshare are good resources to provide you with access to the samples, malicious feeds, and YARA results - these all can be very helpful when it comes to threat hunting and incident response. 
For detection rules, SOC Prime Threat Detection Marketplace is a great platform, where security professionals share their detection rules for different kinds of threats including the latest CVE's that are being exploited in the wild by adversaries. 
Fuzzy hashing is also a strong weapon against the attacker's tools. Fuzzy hashing helps you to perform similarity analysis - match two files with minor differences based on the fuzzy hash values. One of the examples of fuzzy hashing is the usage of SSDeep; on the SSDeep official website, you can also find the complete explanation for fuzzy hashing. 

Provide the method used to determine similarity between the files 
Fuzzy Hashinh

Provide the alternative name for fuzzy hashes without the abbreviation 
context triggered piecewise hashes

TTPs stands for Tactics, Techniques & Procedures. This includes the whole MITRE ATT&CK Matrix, which means all the steps taken by an adversary to achieve his goal, starting from phishing attempts to persistence and data exfiltration. 
If you can detect and respond to the TTPs quickly, you leave the adversaries almost no chance to fight back. 
For, example if you could detect a Pass-the-Hash attack using Windows Event Log Monitoring and remediate it, you would be able to find the compromised host very quickly and stop the lateral movement inside your network
At this point, the attacker would have two options:
Go back, do more research and training, reconfigure their custom tools
Give up and find another target
Option 2 definitely sounds less time and resource-consuming.

Navigate to ATT&CK Matrix webpage. How many techniques fall under the Exfiltration category?
9
Chimera is a China-based hacking group that has been active since 2018. What is the name of the commercial, remote access tool they use for C2 beacons and data exfiltration?
Cobalt Strike

Now you have learned the concept of the Pyramid of Pain. Maybe it is time to apply this in practice. Please, navigate to the Static Site to perform the exercise. 
You can pick any APT (Advanced Persistent Threat Groups) as another exercise. A good place to look at would be FireEye Advanced Persistent Threat Groups. 









