Networks are simply things connected. For example, your friendship circle: you are all connected becasuse of similar interest, hobbies, skills and sorts.
Networks can be found in all walks of life:

A city's public transportation system
Infrastructure such as the national power grid for electricity
Meeting and greeting your neighbours
Postal systems for sending letters and parcels

Networks are integrated into our everyday life. Be it gathering data for the weather, delivering electricity to homes or even determining who has the right of way at a road. 
Because networks are so embedded in the modern-day, networking is an essential concept to grasp in cybersecurity.

MAC address
 - Decice on a network will all have a physical network interface, whihc is a microchip board found on the device's motherboard. 
This network interfface is assigned a unique address at the factory it was built at, called a MAC (Media Access Control) address. The MAC address is a sixteen-character hexadecimal number(a base
sixteen numbering ststem used in computing to represent numbers) split into two's and separated by a colon, for example 14:c3:F0:95:ac:2s.
The firs six characters repesent the company that made the network interface, and the last six is a unique number.
[MAC address can be faked or "spoofed"] 

What is the key term for devices that are connected together?
 - Network

What does the term "IP" stand for?
 - Internet Protocol

What is each section of an IP address called?
 - Octet

How many sections (in digits) does an IP address have?
 - 4

What does the ter "MAC" stand for?
 - Media Access Control


What is the Internet?
The Internet is one giant network that consists of many, many small networks within itself. 
Using our example from the previous task, lets now imagine that Alice made some new friends named Zayon and Toby that she wants to introduce to Bob and Jim.
The problem is that Alice is the onlu person who speaks the same language as Zayn and Toby.

As previously stated, the Internet is made up of many small networks all joined together. 
These small networks are called private networks, where networks connecting these small networks are called public networks -- or the Internet! So, to recap, a network can be one of two types:
A private network
A public network

Who invented the World Wide Web?
 -  Tim Berners-Lee


Ping is one of the most fundamental network tools available to us. 
Ping uses ICMP (Internet Control Message Protocol) packets to determine the performance of a connection between devices, for example, if the connection exists or is reliable.

The time taken for ICMP packets travelling between devices is measured by ping, such as in the screenshot below. This measuring is done using ICMP's echo packet and then ICMP's echo reply from the target device.

Pings can be performed against devices on a network, such as your home network or resources like websites. This tool can be easily used and comes installed on Operating Systems (OSs) such as Linux and Windows. 
The syntax to do a simple ping is ping IP address or website URL. Let's see this in action in the screenshot below.

What protocol does ping use?
 - ICMP

What is the suntax to ping 10.10.10.10?
 - ping 10.10.10.10

What flat do you get when you flag 8.8.8.8
THM{I_PINGED_THE_SERVER}



